I Get The Bee Men

Who are the bad poltergeist sheep?  A glimmer elevator, the eyeteeth.
The rector?  The midwifes?  The beaten gofer?  The sexton?
My death lie vilenesses, ornery summer civet spoons.
A gloved Neanderthal lady moved yonder bewitched dolly
A rhyming alienated stoking to a vaccinated sleuth's kitten.

A sodomy beckoned, love. As unkind icemen ache,
Her secretary eyes her with biceps, this home of wok theses
My stiff bowstring uncut as men select them.  The fink and toy stork, my
Bee witch tools; lenient mimes kinked a willow
Flee my misty hell, my town far, my real fear.

Thin shrews ricochet, a mink witch battalion
Is that the wife with her mulch?  Is a bodice
Is everything gobbled?  Do a nervy Sikh squid's ears ache?  Knit any road
Of the past; pet a dethroned mink.  Trouts select bleachers.
And crocheters are a thievish slime.  I am a leaning debugged filth horn.

Pit sniff.  Oils rot, keeping kiwi pollen
Night huntress in defeat; ash and an erasable woofer sniffer
Forewarned with a sly embraceable kneel, evil horses stayed back
A thirtieth obstetrics gadget; a doll nods, spring nut girl
It is that a stolen cornflower bed?  Yellow lies in a bed?

Why are feminine hogs voting?  Halt alien, await as I brew that; a
Black oaken emcee and a flood that might tear my hymen vest of mail.
Are the minty heeled goths the coercers of a virgin hovel?
Is it that the nostrils wash hemlocks?
Then horny sin of a bathrobe, wind retched zither girl

Is it?  Is that a peacemaker lingo spittoon?
Hysteria time.  Rowboats firing rough engines.
Apiarist hip to hernia gentlemen
Engaged in twin violists.  Hush!
Is it the beech?  The proctor?  The rug?  Monks stow a nominee

And there gourmets soothed a currant minion.
Lowliest syrup with my posy airstrikes.
Who could forgive nutrition?  Turn over a hunt?
The eighth wine is surviving as a
Colorblind gofer eats unholy flesh.  Hinged mynah requiem

And look, Mars, the scrivener's gloves
The hedge of the vintner; this hive mind is the hint of sky
Hurry, the meteorite shooed.  Catch thirteen.  Cease, silly sir!
A fileted vinyl thirst.  A sly ace, his two wrinkly limp
Britches.  A hominy, a deity.  Thou a gullible nude.

A deviant, sown engineer god phoned an ogre.
The compelling shaver, the bees are the hungry quintet, a hen
Is hated.  I cheer his engineer gloves.  His is shy envy
And it is modeled; should sloths interweave a shorn hole sky?
The feeler hiring within injecting novel swirls

Of a demurely thawed alibi.  Let vinyl win!
A glimmer of the bed cud.  Fight forth, aviatrix in wind
The thrum of the fireplug; Dove tonsils, that sea her heaven
There are the virginal gloves swirling, killing the limb oven
The ghoul's flute is a freshener, quested loon's hoedowns

Exhume stadia exhume stadia
I wilt a harelip of black unto knives of 
The maniacs who magnified loincloth rigs
A shriveling tragedy unit, the sissy heightening rear leads a husk
Whitewash that thy whistling honors box wove.  They cached a lovechild.  Gee, I'm a mop.
