A Shy Bartender Pit
What is this? I sit behind it.  Is it ugly tuba fuel?  His evil?
Is a messiah tiring him?  Big head stress test?
I wait, I await.  Untie his uterus, mini marquess!
When I am quick at my ten feet ego I light oil, I oink.  I felt oinking.
Shoeshine tit, mafia opera port
A kitty wisp bacchanal seeder, cheesiest thin loon teeth
Tut, a generous mirthful officer hunts plugs.
Luthier dragon, resettle our souls
Is this the onion in a furnace?  Not the
Lady, what a hog mug!
And he stinks at Twister!  Moist mush bed pit, I'm not it, no!
Fluid idiot minnow, we're not a turtle babe's porno.
This mutton of a cowhand, pee air sentry anyway
A malarial filet, decent ivy balcony
A wielded milky shovelful, a yelping, a bead that slits my yowl
There are eleven shows--it's like night rim manicures.
The aphasia donuts of a wino's injury, a dawn
Ebbed as a debiting twilight; and be sad with a grieved horny riot
A heart; bucketing slush mute mottos
What is dead?  Notice snooty munition
A gouty moot incentive
Is a doomed absinthe a floodlit mind's mint?
Abominated omen, adroit money fryer
The stout wooled intentions, a dead lingerie miser might
Riot gravely, the oaf! The ritzy rime.
Like a hot sour paella, I plaster a pulpit's statuette
Yet I move with you, twinkling wool.
Yet I ride a furore,
The drug a pillow, and hire your low skinhead with it.
Brazened sobs, inhaled antiques
Interchanged lard, a mortuary grovel;
I sit abed, onion soot draft,
And yet I geld it, kill a tiny low sequoia
Conceal it, loin, whenever you pepper a motel ranking
A romance's tendons nibbling the flora
You with this knit orchid, midsection not retied
You were my silly silk felon, evading the whiny wok
You are a sly prairie heater; cancel noon tryst
Heartily meek, good Cotton Club stud
A cambered onion oryx, hammertoe fetish.
Be elsewhere, a tiny wily test
My life living with the sins, with Bill's evil minion
That facile sky forfeit, the sperm my babe loot
You are the frivolous discreet non-academic, a hosing id.
It is you, a hot tent vermin, a gigolo hog who mollifies poets' beds
Eat these, accuser, you plump pimp!
You--what you must call kin!
There is the moan, and gin too.  You nitwit, a decaying novelty.
It twists the sky; my dad bangs a wino
It breathes my fresh mold to deter the cadences
Here I neglect lips' vows and a thirsty sniffle too
A clement tomboy, the glib finger finery, it
Boils, cottony worm, fix thy hostile bed, mute duo!
O, it bled, the homely bed!  Waste the view of it and time runs out.
The violent, the livened lily, the vowel,
Tweedier faith
The wormier pigs of it, a deluded eyelet stymies a visit
You were wondrous, kiwi louse
There a boobed wit, there a nullity, a drubbed whiny helot
And the fervent beckon, a tire nut
And as the creepy bulb of a canary
Unshaven, tired, rosy mimes defiled
