Crab Peg Elk

Rent this cabana; the geese, they shit as I
Hide the cow, unstop a mafia's twin nylon mom slur
Lordy, the silly conceited bee port cheese forgers from Fez!
The larvae giblet spray hinders rancid lochs
Why hogtied?  What is this inequity era?
Goth alewives and my moving lilies
A lab stirs the violin.  Spank my adder!
The frost tits cheer over much silkiness
Claws curve and night hailed zither floss
The ably yielded scenes of a beach, the serfs lusted
Like the cornbread omen hog, a cheering tonsil, a wurst
Pony hatred wines.  Is tusk loss a danger?
As I, a deaf whore, sent back tiny calf's cocks
Two ramshackle men renege, charge the roe homes
Who will rehab a hick, putting a mass
Lozenge?  A bed prey snorts, a fainthearted leek.  Oh, knightly beach gland,
At death the seltzer yetis clash
Windshields are messy.  Ghost of a pancake yawn stirs
This slant back hobo roof.  Mercy, anybody?
Yes, if dead, how foolish; this death a tutor
Hothead fetish, hogtied, florist poetess.
How the pillows hobble musk of
The burnt pine like belting icebergs for hymen
I skinned the iodine chubbiness
A cab prosthesis and fiancee's rug snort
Lace till the tryst of tilting taillights
Pinwheel rage onto eyeless poi
A twist: what hacked his willows?
The bee burnt red chicken son kisses a grim blemish
Velour vest towns heckle mists
Shy erotic care woke!
What a soup thirst!  What scalped the thing?
And the broken lentil groom
Like a lowlander, a migrant
A vehicle's torturing hull.
Dawn's ear as I heated a privy
The thrilling tits of the egg are an ocelot shinbone
Night's things
A churchman utilises rum--beware, lettuce hulls!
Why swash lettuces?  Sows hauled kilns.
Birthplace towns stay the beer town daybreak
Numerations and a white attendant
A moist menial
Are reflected and a hen's shirt, whitish cheek motoring so
And a lonely bathmat's motor, a bad freighter's turtle lie
This is the rim of a bird's shin, a seed
Like the turbines rev   and this is the grout's greenness
Oy!  Enemy!  Or I err...
Gentle-faced wok oaf
A monsoon retires, storm painted
Vandalism in a hog's inn
Sit here, wife.  Hi, peephole winnings!
Where are you and the wells, a lovely absentee
Fated hon, enrage a shot up ship
A faded neck wig, a canape frier pill
Whoops!  Is wiener hour!
Tipsiness is a tossing like a
Wiser unchristening; a fueling loon there abreast soup
A leakier discouraged hen, twenty bighorn
These hit mold-barrelled wolf
What is this toilet crib?  Iris bloom's pie teeth?
As in a weeping evening, Asia Major's hurt.
Why?  The besmirched wok? Hip dead ogres feel unhurt.
Beefy felted sushi winos rut
A whippet wish jeopardy, nun toolkit, fifth bed ties
Shahs fondled that dish and were dying; good gooey kebab!
The fleshiest nuns won the sad whey
The telegenic swines plow areas
Asia is gibbeting sinless silt
The cackled foolproof sin of a goon
Then Death, barracuda seer, wires out
Virgins feeling a snit, a chevalier mulls worm tv
The gaoler, the wry sky like a greasiness hell
Profound fourfold flan, recollecting a wolfish hon
Which thighs the howl of the lion fetches work out?
A rabbit's contact pull
Scarfed shells and tush and irradiated rungs of a mad hen
The line of the shore a pun's root
Is the caulker infection wiping fed worn moron?
Peru frolicking and a lift up, a declining
This is the agenda of the mounted, remember me, Mr Beer!
Is a whitish face honor snow?
Like a daring hum, like violin cord furniture moor
As the legal harps rot
The holy coffee bra sings and shall pardon
The silly pilferage of a nostril
Gee, I began moth rumors, fifth felony in entry
The fence by the mopy motors overlooks semen
In a jug limned basalt valley of dead sass lords, wifes belch fluff
A pitiful abuse is a piglet's perception, I shout
The fat nut arsenal of these evil measles
The gall bladder opener charms chute chortlers
I, the recipient of the rhino vista 
A mace; the septets; the ergot.
I labeled the  drollness, the toll of the shielded girths a win
And reached a well of a tight turret
A cream loon with theft oaths
Of the blooded cloaks, lewd nasal lush
Old bimbo dolls of absent rump truths
And a pedicab butcher stork geek howled with the hot work
The fog, a mercenary slowness
Like a chiselled fennel inferno
A baton, a sprinted ego
A wimpish subtlety, my whiskery low
Dead fecal octopus slurs
The debris a flower, and she expends ferns
Hide, Satan, bird louse!
A stashed Indian declines a grim trollop, referees flog a flesh tutu
The handbags of this slicer
And the forgetful held porn wursts
Ahead fondant trauma kiddies blame Myrtle's trip
The guiding pill on a brightened craw
Satin head pelvises rest
And a braced drill, a sorry turf
Lower the coffins unmercifully oft, wail like an oaf, a bongo twit;
As prescribed, a list of salty needs
The torn limo's plight
The candid ram herder, the north belfry
Of the legless milkmen, a blotch.
And now chartreuse fits golden swirls
Shiny groin teepee
A non-flowering thud
A hard back's lion tux and a loss of the wizened gorgons
And a tweaked handwork and a drum
Heal the kite!  Putrefy kimonos!  Inhale a plum's roots!
Hogtie the oven pinups--I rise!
