Sex and Death on Wings: Insect Imagery in the Poems of Latvia Sylph

V. Botkin

One of the few undisputed details about Latvia Sylph is that she was heavily influenced by her fellow poetess, Sylvia Plath.  Both women frequently used insect imagery in their poems, and their works share a lot of commonalities in the way that bee imagery is used in particular.  Sylph’s additional focus on moths as well is worthy of examination, particularly the way she uses the characteristics of moths and other insects to comment on womanhood and femininity.

Like Plath, Latvia Sylph was known to be an avid beekeeper—a rare biographical detail that is backed up by documentation.  Sylph was an active participant in the apiary in which she was a financial investor, and she was known to be an active participant in the day-to-day activities there.  Her signature is on several sales receipts for equipment purchased and for honey sold by the small enterprise.  None of this, of course, dissuades skeptics and conspiracy theorists of her actual existence or any controversies about the authorship of her poems (including the preposterous idea that Sylvia Plath herself may have been the true author of her poems—or vice versa), but the fact that Latvia Sylph was a real person can hardly be disputed.

In this paper I will discuss the many times in which insect imagery features strongly in the poems of Latvia Sylph.  Her frequent entomological fancies form an obvious thread that unites many of her poems on a thematic level and provide ample evidence for independent authorship.  As with Plath, her bee metaphors are particularly strong, and they are consistently employed in a sexual or violent matter that distinguishes her from her fellow poet.

As a beekeeper (and possible correspondent of Plath), bees were obviously close to Sylph’s daily experience and interests.  Both poets were known to employ bee imagery as a metaphor for the experience of being a woman, especially a woman performing labor in a group.  Some have even argued that the study of Plath and the early published works of Sylph were an indirect influence on the founders of the International Wages for Housework Campaign.

Plath had several poems mentioning the daily aspects of beekeeping from the beekeeper’s point of view.  She poignantly describes the drudgery of their labor and the fact that they don’t even benefit from it as their honey is taken from them.  In “Wintering” the bees must consist on Tate and Lyle’s (a brand of sugar) instead of the honey they have produced from flowers.  Their freedom has been robbed in exchange for a common domestic staple that can be found in the kitchen where they are confined and inadequately compensated for their domestic labor.   In “The Arrival of the Bee Box” the sound the bees make is compared to that of a Roman mob, bringing to mind of course the mob portrayed by Shakespeare in Julius Caesar.  Plath’s bees are a mob of dissatisfied housewives, buzzing darkly and somewhat impotently, constantly threatening violence (literal or literary) against others or themselves.

Sylph continues many of these themes with her bee references and references to other insects, but adds an erotic dimension with her portrayal.  Rather than Julius Caesar, her verse calls to mind the scene in A Midsummer Night’s Dream where Titania instructs her minions to attend to the rather oafish Bottom, with whom she is in love:

Be kind and courteous to this gentleman.
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes;
Feed him with apricocks and dewberries,
With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries;
The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees,
And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs
And light them at the fiery glowworms’ eyes
To have my love to bed and to arise;
And pluck the wings from painted butterflies
To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.
Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.

Sylph’s bees and other insects also find themselves trapped in domestic labor, but they are also much more sexual creatures in the context of the imagery in which they are employed.  It’s easy to imagine those saucy bees, whose “waxen thighs” are mined to light fires in the eyes of phallic (but still biologically feminine) glow-worms.  Meanwhile butterflies are robbed of their wings (and thus mobility and means of escape) to enable this farcical tryst to fan moonbeams from Bottom’s eyes and further enable the male gaze.  One particular line in in “Le Boss”, Sylph’s most blatantly sexual and controversial poem seems to directly reference these lines:

Willowy honkey on our dead-moth inner thighs…

This image comes amidst the masturbatory stream-of-consciousness thoughts of a bored housewife fantasizing about being a sex worker in Manila and entertaining multiple men.

In Sylph’s poetry, bees are frequently mentioned in the context of flesh or sexualized clothing such as lingerie.  Sometimes the imagery is jarring or unpleasant as flesh is equated with meat, as in “Lard Lazy USA”.  This poem already mixes sex and food, with its mentions of “cafeteria menses”, a “velvet labia chewer”, “moistened teacakes and “dietetic semen”.  There’s even a “tamable taco lock”, thought to be a crude reference to a chastity belt (literal or figurative).  Later in the poem a “bee war” is instigated, presumably during the sexual act.  The foreplay of this act is portrayed when “Bee flesh throne heightens intro”.

The mention of bees and flesh in such close proximity brings to mind the ancient ritual called bugonia which stemmed from the belief that bees were spontaneously generated from the rotting flesh of a cow.  This ritual is described in the 10th century Byzantine agricultural text Geoponika as follows:

Build a house, ten cubits high, with all the sides of equal dimensions, with one door, and four windows, one on each side; put an ox into it, thirty months old, very fat and fleshy; let a number of young men kill him by beating him violently with clubs, so as to mangle both flesh and bones, but taking care not to shed any blood; let all the orifices, mouth, eyes, nose etc. be stopped up with clean and fine linen, impregnated with pitch; let a quantity of thyme be strewed under the reclining animal, and then let windows and doors be closed and covered with a thick coating of clay, to prevent the access of air or wind. After three weeks have passed, let the house be opened, and let light and fresh air get access to it, except from the side from which the wind blows strongest. Eleven days afterwards, you will find the house full of bees, hanging together in clusters, and nothing left of the ox but horns, bones and hair. 

And so the sex-death ritual of the bovine housewife trapped (spiritually) dead within her quarters generates a house full of angry bees ready for war.  (Is this perhaps also the origin of the Roman mob-like bees filling Plath’s bee box, droning ominously in Latin?)

In “Slit Up” we again see bees involved in sex and death.  This time we have “A cheese pilot trio, a tux, bee litterers within”.  The tux is naturally a symbol of marriage and lost virginity, this sex-flesh-death act giving rise to more bees chaotically strewn about.

In “Padded Pesto”, we have the speaker pondering:

Whether stubble regrows, a bee bustier tit whistle 
Stops a thin ad whitener

Again, the male gaze is hinted at as the speaker depilates, and bees are associated with breasts and bustiers.  The “tit whistle” is frequently interpreted as a baby shrilly crying to be breastfed, interrupting the sex act.  The waxing of pubic hair and the emphasis of female breasts with a bustier draw attention to secondary sex characteristics in contrast to the biological purposes served by the breasts and vagina.  The woman’s duty is torn as she keeps herself sexually attractive and pleasing to the male gaze but at the same time must deal with the fruits of the sex act as she attends to an infant produced by it.  The bees form the link between these worlds of milk and honey.

We meet bees twice within  the couplets of “Crab Peg Elk”:

Lordy, the silly conceited bee port cheese forgers from Fez!
The larvae giblet spray hinders rancid lochs

…

The bee burnt red chicken son kisses a grim blemish
Velour vest towns heckle mists

The bee references here are not themselves particularly sexual, but the former one is immediately followed with the imagery of “larvae giblet spray”, which evokes a rather crude image of sperm being ejaculated into a womb—again in terms of meat, with giblets representing internal organs.  Once again living flesh is associated with meat, and the act of procreation associated with destruction.  We meet bees again in the next couplet, as a “bee-burnt red chicken son” kisses a grim blemish.  The red chicken son here is the product of the earlier sexual activity, a ruddy infant boy seeking his mother’s nipple to feed.  Could the grim blemish be a mark left on the mother’s breast from earlier sexual activity with a lover?  Once again, the woman feels herself torn between duties as a wife and a lover, and her inability to fully succeed as either summons bees from the ravaged flesh.

In “Liver Lug” we encounter bees again at the end of the poem, this time bookended by lubrication and BDSM:

That lunatic lube voice--ill verve horn
Hats in a bee eyelet gel
Fate, hon--dahlias' bossy whips!

“Horn hats in a bee eyelet gel” identifies the bee’s stinger with the lubricated phallus, providing a sting of pain upon penetration.  This is followed by a dahlia being stung by bossy whips.  This is again a white flower representing the flesh being mortified by a playful activity that presents pain and pleasure mixed together at the same time, which is consistent with the themes and imagery we see elsewhere.

Bees are very briefly mentioned in “Ether Egg Tint” where there is a surfeit of bee news.  In the context of the poem, this reference is likely literal, referring to a busy time at the apiary.  There’s not much to say here besides the obvious service of bees once again invoked in the context of a woman being overwhelmed by domestic and employment duties.

This same tone is taken within “Amused” which references the “bee enthusing town”, the small-town customers of the apiary whose needs must be met by a busy wife and mother as part of her employment duties.

Warring bees arise again within “Ever F 103”:

Of a bee cloud's flung turrets
How the panacea beetle gets a whiz
Of clinking lace

This time the angry mob of roused bees is set forth in their “clinking lace”, which makes us imagine them in some sort of lingerie armor, simultaneously deployed in the act of sex and destruction as they fly into battle, perhaps clad in the lacy “bee bustiers” from “Padded Pesto”.

Bees get title billing in “I Get The Bee Men” but are otherwise unmentioned within the text of the poem.  Again there are obvious themes of sex and violence and decay in the poem, and the title indicates a jaded, ironic acceptance of these contradictory male obsessions.

In “A Hot Reflexive Bathrobe”:

Stout dick fluids, a handed jaunt, a bedrock detention rots in
A London bloc mindset.  A bee slithers, unhurt.
Deaf then hot, architect's poetry.

The sexual context is blatant immediately, as is the threat of decay as “dick fluids” and “rot” are immediately mentioned.  A bee slithers—unhurt, notably—from these twin ravages.  The fact of the bee being unhurt is ominously mentioned, indicating that t is not obvious that the bee would come out of this encounter unharmed.

Three references within “Twine Grin”, first of bees and moths (another Sylph obsession as we shall see):

My, a honey hive
Six fair jots
Excite a sissy, cartwheel linen

…

Moth histories, inner beehive vane
A bedroom, his itchiest inherent velour

In the first two references the homes and products of bees are mentioned in the absence of bees.  Only the hives and honey are present here.  Even without the bees, the hive still calls in their absence.  The “inner beehive vane” suggests that the hive-home gives direction to the bees, who would otherwise roam freely.

Sexualized bees come back with a vengeance a few stanzas later:

Granny lotion
This is the mango nightie of the freshest bee bone
Whorish knot, damsel yowl
Filigreed silk loins
The rusty point

This unsettling stanza is widely thought to refer to the act of sodomy, especially when done in preservation of one’s maidenhood.  The heroine is dressed demurely in a mango-colored nightie of the freshest “bee bone”.  Bees obviously don’t have bones, but the penetrative stinger of a bee, situated at its rear, menaces as if it sheathed a rigid internal bone capable of deeply penetrating flesh beyond a thin layer of skin.  The “damsel yowl” occurs as the young lady is anally penetrated with inadequate lubrication provided by the “granny lotion”.  Her maidenhood is technically intact, but her most private orifice is now derided as a “whorish knot”.  This saddles her with sin and guilt despite the purity she has otherwise preserved.  (Compare to the “usury by anus” and the “puce knot” in “Le Boss”.)  The filigreed loins are a further lingerie reference, and the “rusty point” hints that this penetration may be harmful or even deadly and certainly should be interpreted as a form of violence even if technically consensual.

The only insect referenced more frequently than bees in Sylph’s writings are moths.  Moths are seldom mentioned in the poems of Sylvia Plath.  The most notable mention would be the mention of the “moth-breath” of her child in the poem “Morning Song”.  For all her bee enthusiasm, Plath never had much to say about moths.

Moths have traditionally served as symbols of change, retreat, and growth.  Like butterflies, moths undergo a transformation from larvae to caterpillar to cocoon to winged creature.  However, the drab end product is usually much less glorious than the colorful butterflies joyously celebrated by other poets.  The other characteristic for which moths are known is their compulsive and often fatal attraction to light and flame, which often makes them a symbol of self-destruction.  Where bees might represent eros, the sexual or life instincts, moths are a clear symbol of thanatos, the death drive.  This makes Sylph’s poetry a rich target for Freudian analysis, of course, though as with bees, the sexual and destructive impulses are again entwined.  It should also be noted that moths are more solitary creatures than bees and, though fragile, they are not necessarily an obligatory symbol of femininity in the way that bees are.

There is also an element of wordplay present in the word “moth”, especially when used as an adjectival noun.  When used as an adjective, the word moth would be modified in its comparative and superlative forms to moth-er and moth-est.  The superlative form is, of course, nonsense.  But the comparative form moth-er brings to mind the word “mother”.  With this in mind, it is always possible when we see the word “moth” to read it as something that is less than a moth-er, suggesting maternal inadequacy.  In the same way “broth” could be something less than a “broth-er”, and “cyst” could be something less than a “cyst-er” or “sister”.  Some may consider this interpretation a bit of a stretch, but it is certainly consistent with some of the themes of maternal inadequacy we have already seen in Sylph’s treatment of bees.   

We have our first direct encounter with moths in the early poem “Cathartic Herb Bet”

Untold hissing--quick moth singe
A chronic stone tit killing moles.

This imagery is pretty straightforward—a moth plunging directly into a flame and being consumed, leaving nothing.  A living being is replaced by a death, an absence, a person replaced by a headstone marking their grave site.  The next line has a “stone tit” killing moles.  If moles are understood to be the children of the moth, then we have a clear image of a mother replaced by a tombstone and no longer able to nurse her young, her milk-bearing breast having been reduced to a “chronic stone tit”. She is an inadequate moth-er who has perished due to her self-destructive tendencies.  The fact that the initial draft of this poem (later revised) was allegedly written a few days after the suicide of Sylph’s contemporary and correspondent, Sylvia Plath, lends further credence to this theory, but this is of course extratextual speculation.

Moths get title billing again in the poem “Ideal Moth Id”, and mention of the Id again suggests that a Freudian reading of the poem may be appropriate.  Moths are not mentioned in the body of the poem itself.  We do have a few ironic and nearly comical images of sex and death in the poem, suggesting eros battling thanatos.  A refined “pussy” is mentioned early in the poem, but this turns out to be literally a cat, as we discover a few stanzas later.  First we have “A cat’s heft/Revising a bed-going thong”, which evokes a sexual encounter thwarted by a comfortable fat cat perched on the bed where the encounter was supposed to take place.  We later have the spooky image of “vandal elf lovers” in a “coffined reef”, a burial at sea.  Again Sylph indirectly summons forth lines from Shakespeare, this time from The Tempest:

Full fathom five thy father lies;
Of his bones are coral made;
Those are pearls that were his eyes:
Nothing of him that doth fade,
But doth suffer a sea-change
Into something rich and strange.
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:
                                          Ding-dong.
Hark! now I hear them,—ding-dong, bell.

This comically hints at the ultimate ultimate fate of the tryst-thwarting cat if we recall the children’s rhyme:

Ding-dong, bell
Pussy’s in the well…
…
What a naughty boy was that
To drown a little pussy cat

In “Pathetic Plan”:

But moth youths heartened us yet
A fool's drowned visors
…
Be froth, rough moths!

And again moths are closely associated with drowning and self-destruction.  This poem was also supposed to have been initially written in the wake of Plath’s suicide, and recall that her suicide at the time was widely compared to that of Virginia Woolf, who notoriously drowned herself by filling her pockets with stones and walking into the River Ouse.

Moths are mentioned briefly amongst the many scattered images of “Lard Lazy Usa”, this time we have:

A stealth moth strike
"Darn burn unit!"
A thorned green yucca's torment or intuited oink?

Again, this could be interpreted in a darkly comic way as a thwarted suicide attempt.  The unfortunate moth stealthily tries to fly into the flame but fails and ends up unhappily situated in a burn unit.  This can also be read as an ironic reference to Plath’s poem “Tulips” in which the speaker lies in a sickroom and is tormented by the presence of flowers sent by well-wishers.

The final line of “Other Jail” leaves us with the following image:

If death outvotes tower
Though thawed twill
Who winked, hateful-eyed without soot
Wood moth died out

And once more moths are directly associated with death.  We have a mention of “thawed twill”, which suggests a sort of frozen dinner thawed as a meal for a moth, since many species of moth eat clothing.  However, here the moth in question is specified as a wood moth, a species that burrows in trees and eats plants.  The moth in the poem is offered a frozen dinner, a typical lazy meal for a housewife, but possibly starves to death since it is not the sort of moth that eats such things.  And thus we have an image of a misfit not surviving after being misplaced in the wrong environment—some women are simply not meant to be wives and mothers.  Again this supports the theory that many of Sylph’s poems are a direct response to Plath’s suicide, or at the very least that it was looming large in Sylph’s mind when the poems were written.

In “UTC” a “thrift moth gathers petitions”.  This poem was specficially written for Ann Louise Sorel, a fellow poet and feminist political activist.  It’s rather obvious that Ms. Sorel (or someone like her) is the “moth” in this poem.

In “I Gam” we have more sexualized moths:

A headlamp poet models with thy benefactor
Thus the writer hit it, a tinseled moth harem.
Cinched hominy spurs a foul girl.  Whatever!

Here the moth is a poet, drawn in by headlamps, perhaps those of a luxury car belonging to a wealthy benefactor—a moth to a flame.  Poets are typically in need of patrons since it is notoriously difficult to make a living by writing poetry, and often the poet-patron relationship can be unhealthy and sexually exploitative.  We can imagine a female poet becoming part of a “tinseled moth harem”, one of many artists exploited by one of these “benefactors”, and feeling like a “foul girl” for being thus sullied.

We have already treated the line from “Le Boss” above:

Willowy honkey on our dead-moth inner thighs…

In context here, we again have moths in a realm where eros and thanatos clash.  The “dead-moth inner thighs” likely refer to the stockings worn by the speaker as lingerie while she entertains men in the brothel.  The delicate and patterned material of the stockings resembles the wings of moths.  It is also worth noting that silk, commonly used to make stockings, is the product of a silkworm, which is a type of moth larva.  Moths have brief lifespans, so any stockings worn by the speaker would have been produced by an insect that was long dead.

In “Crab Peg Elk”:

Gee, I began moth rumors, fifth felony in entry
The fence by the mopy motors overlooks semen

Here the speaker sins by beginning moth rumors, possibly sexual ones as the next line possibly references a pool of spilled semen in a fenced in area, perhaps a parking lot—the site of an illicit rendezvous.  This is the speaker’s fifth “felony”.  Given the delicateness and extreme self-destructive nature of moths, starting rumors about them seems a good way to drive them into flames, and the speaker feels guilty about this recklessness.

In “Amused” we have a“bear squeezing the blob fed moth rolls”.  This is clearly a delicate woman being embraced by a burly lover.  The woman is or has recently been pregnant, having housed a “blob” within her which gave her some rolls of fat due to the weight gain associated with pregnancy.  There is perhaps something poignant about this loving image of acceptance, which lies at the heart of an otherwise cynical and ironic poem filled with “sisterly yokels”, “riotous slums” and a “cornball induced cult”.

“Mr Beetle Inventor” puts moths in the midst of apocalyptic global catastrophe:

And the collapse of the world's
Hive motel
Like ivy moth hoteliers
The people are glands;
Aim, ignite

Many lines in this poem appear to reference the work Silent Spring by Rachel Carson, which had been published the year before initial publication of the poem.  In particular we see the danger from the unintended effects from the misuse and overuse of pesticides, which can kill animals and insects besides the pests they are meant to eliminate.  The world’s hive collapses, the home is destroyed, and “moth hoteliers” are left to clean up the mess and try to provide shelter for what is left.  This environmental crisis only worsens the tensions from the Cold War, and at the end of the stanza people react on their worst primal instincts and launch nuclear missiles to kill the enemy before they are killed themselves.  Aim, ignite.

She returns to moth imagery at the end of the same poem, this time in a more blatantly sexual manner:

Violet lace oboe.
Numbed booty,
Wash the twilight askew!
The labial creeper
Bled, the donor of moth death and lumpy geese sleep.

Again, the death of moths is invoked in a sexual manner and we seem to revisit the wealthy donor with whom the poet-speaker had a sexual relationship from “I Gam”.  This donor, a “labial creeper” is now a donor of moth death—he has given her silk garments to wear and a lumpy feather pillow (“lumpy geese sleep”) to lay her head on, probably at a cheap and sleazy motel that is the setting for their sordid tryst.

We see moths again in the rather amusing last line of “Addy D.”, which ends a string of insults as vicious as anything found in Shakespeare or Juvenal:

You garish moth turd, bad dyad daddy

The target of these insults is widely thought to be the wealthy donor antagonist of “I Gam” and “Mr Beetle Inventor”.  Some extratextual details suggest this may have been a wealthy businessman Sylph had dealings with in the course of her apiary duties, but it would be impolite and disrespectful to his family to speculate openly about his identity at this time.  The title of the poem suggests the name of this candidate, which many imaginative scholars have seized onto, but it’s equally likely from the last word of the poem that “Addy D.” merely unscrambles to the word “Daddy”.  Given that Plath had a poem of the same name, this poem may have been written a response to that work.  I must add that, while some imaginative types have suggested the entire poem may be “unscrambled” in a similar manner to produce the poem that may have inspired it, I personally find the idea preposterous.  I would suggest that such theorists should go back to coaxing numerological prophecies from biblical texts and studying kabbalah.

“Ever F 301”  makes an oddly specific moth reference:

Lime moth weakeners, inherently wet toil

The Lime Hawk Moth is a type of moth known to feed on lime trees.  This seems like a callback to the starved dead wood moth of “Other Jail”, which feeds on wood and fails to thrive in a domestic setting.  Here “inherently wet toil” is invoked, which clearly seems to be a reference to household chores such as washing dishes.  Again we have a poor creature unfit for such duties and destroyed by their inability to adapt to them.

“A Hot Reflexive Bathrobe” features both lice and moths:

Dried theorist on shadowbox lice
I save moth toy loot, flat quasar cairns ahead 

There are several ironic juxtapositions in this passage filled with dense imagery.  Just as bees are necessarily female in the form we commonly encounter them, moths are necessarily adult in their flying form.  A toy would be better suited for a moth in its larval form—though it is possible that such a toy could be an “adult” toy or sex toy.  However, the imagery of “flat quasar cairns” seems to demand the ironic interpretation.  Cairns are meant to be visible markers, so a flat cairn would be nearly useless.  And a cairn emitting radio waves like a quasar would not be useful for someone relying on their vision to find a location.

Finally, from “Twine Grin” as previously mentioned we have:

Moth histories, inner beehive vane
A bedroom, his itchiest inherent velour
A bad elite thinker, kebab tech lunch
Nil goth
The truth and botanic fist   

In this last example we have bees and moths together, and unlike the flat cairns of “A Hot Reflexive Bahtrobe”, the bee and moth artifacts here actually serve a wayfinding function.  The “inner beehive vane” acts as a concrete means of orienting in the present, while the “moth histories” act in an abstract way to orient the poet temporally and culturally.

It should be obvious from these examples that Sylph’s deliberate and consistent use of bee and moth imagery gives her a distinct and unique voice.  Although there are inevitably similarities between the use of insects in her poems and the ways that Sylvia Plath employed the same imagery, the contrasts are also striking.  And her repeated use of moth imagery certainly sets her apart from Plath and others.

There is also much to be said about Sylph’s employment of yeti imagery in her poems.  This ape-like cryptid appears in at least eight of her poems.  As with her insects, the appearance of a yeti in her poems is often evocative of the stresses and failures of womanhood, particularly in performing femininity for the male gaze.  With its large feet and ample body hair and (by some accounts) foul odor, the yeti is everything a woman is not supposed to be, according to society.  Sylph is not the first poet to make this association, but examination of this topic is beyond the scope of this paper.  It is my hope that this thread will be taken up by other scholars.
