"Mel", a free verse poem by Latvia Sylph, consists of fourteen stanzas of three lines each.  It presents itself as a dramatic monologue, with several lines being written in the first person and referring to "I", "me", and "mine".  Most commentators believe that the title "Mel" refers to the speaker, introduced in the first line as a woman: "Booth mitten wok she says".  Despite the apparently masculine name of the title (Mel is often short for Melvin), Mel can also be a short form for other women's names such as Melissa.  A male is mentioned later in the poem, first in the line "his inhibitors washing huts", and some believe that this person may be the Mel of the title.  Still others believe that the antecedent of "his" in this line is the horse Coco mentioned a few lines prior: "Neigh neigh Coco" with the inhibitors being Coco's reins.  This critic's interpretation follows.

The poem begins immediately with the speaker placed within a domestic setting, with chores and tools that suggest a feminine speaker doing housework.  She is perhaps knitting mittens, cooking in a wok, and using a potato grater.  The potato grater has become such a part of her daily existence that she is able to "know" things with it, as if it were a part of her own nervous system.  Two lines later an earthen beehive is mentioned.  Like her contemporary, Sylvia Plath, Sylph was known to be an avid beekeeper, and bees often held a place in her poetry symbolizing feminized labor.  All productive members of a bee colony are female, after all.  Like the bees, the speaker feels that she must be satiated with housework, her labor in service of the hive, but she also appears to be conflicted and unfulfilled with this domesticity: "Satiety house I hear in me its dissatisfactions".  We are then introduced to the "chive fog notion", perhaps the pungent onion scent arising from her wok as she prepares a supper.

The line "shoe disavowal" evokes the fear of adultery, real or imagined, as the speaker finds a shoe belonging to another person in or near her own home which is disavowed--perhaps the evidence of a tryst that has happened in her absence on one of the occasions she was allowed to leave the hive.  This brazen lie is perhaps the "eel tooth assertiveness" of a slippery creature with teeth, her husband telling a sly lie and boldly daring her to call him on his gaslighting at the threat of being bitten.  She is mocked as a "hoof hag", one with supernatural powers to place and interpret the meanings of stray footwear, possibly unreal and placed there with the power of her own mind.  The speaker slinks off and rolls a trout pitifully as her horse neighs nearby.  The trout has landed out of water, perhaps having jumped out of the pond.  In this way the trout has escaped its own enclosure at the cost of its life.  The speaker gloomily offers to bring out fishpond nooses for its sisters and perhaps for herself, sympathizing and seeing death as their only escape.

We soon return to the kitchen, but this time another escape--or at least a coping mechanism for the speaker's entrapment within a domestic routine--is suggested: writing.  We have imagery of "unsatisfied rice in wealthiest ink" and suffering "tofu stationery chests" as the food she is preparing in the wok reminds her of the fact that she is doing domestic chores instead of writing poems.  Her domestic tasks and her writing blend to the point where she is mixing them up performing both of these inadequately.  Even her tofu stationery chests are crocheted too short.  She recognizes that this dilemma is ridiculous enough not to rise to high tragedy nor even to pathos but rather to its absurd and ridiculous cousin, bathos.  She is no tragic hero, merely "born a piecewise punk", herself only stitched together into someone whose travails are not fit for epic verse.  She even fears for her own hygiene, worrying about the presence of lice--perhaps even crab lice spread to her by her unfaithful husband.

She soon finds herself fearing the inadequacy of her own poetry, comparing it to the mundane similes of schoolmaster and being applied homeward to quotidian tasks such as housework.  The imagery of cranberries evoke the bog she finds herself mired in and the sound of a bugle attempting to call her forth from her miserable peril.  In the next line she imagines herself scolded by a salesperson for her inadequacies, a "corrupt peevish hag", skimping on her chores and resentful of her mate.  She blames herself for his unfaithfulness, hungry and unsatisfied by her food and her sex and seeking out the embrace of another woman while eating figs out of a tin.  "Wan possessed demon adores me" is possibly a line spoken by her husband to his lover as the two of them eat figs and mock his pale and scrawny shrewish wife who nonetheless stays by his side despite his obvious lies.

Once again we return to the fishpond, where she imagines luring the fish to an escape in willing death with her cyanide bait.  She thinks back to her punk days when she was better able to entice and satisfy; her "painfully goth tits" and her Vivienne Westwood-style fashion with a kilt worn over a pair of fishnet stockings.  (Did she find herself caught by these fishnets and placed in her own pond-prison?)  In the kitchen she angrily whisks and fantasizes of writing about burning the former symbols of her sexuality with a molotov cocktail.  This sudden imagery scares her, this "tight ink shard" threatening to be born into writing, as her fantasies of self-harm and fish euthanasia accelerate into flames.  The elephant in the room has been addressed, and she stems it as best she can.

She eats days; all she can do to choke each pathetic day down one after another.  She is nothing but vermin, a mere flea.  Her hunger is sated by the muffins she makes for the household, but not her thirst--a thirst for blood.  The earthen beehive returns as she addresses another woman, a "terrestrial beehive pal" widely thought to be the dedicatee Faith Hurtling.  (Sylph's private letters to this correspondent indicate that she was a woman facing many of the same predicaments.)

She has moved on to preparing dessert as she silently pits cherries, a symbol of maidenhood and the transition from girl to wife.  She ponders religion and mortality as well.  She does not believe the souls of man (or woman), within their ape frames, have any neutral place in the afterlife.  Our souls are only bound for heaven or hell or welcome oblivion.  She fantasizes of fasting rather than eating another day and escaping to this oblivion, denying herself even the muffins she subsists on.  She welcomes the burgling of her own dwelling to take away the domestic tools of her own enslavement.  Anything to release her from her drudgery.

In the end her husband comes home to a dinner poorly prepared by a distracted spouse as she imagines sexual fluids befouling his posterior from a recent illicit encounter.  Once again an intelligent woman is reduced to a shrew by her own jealousy, justified or not.  She feels herself empty, like a lotus pod.  Many commenters believe that faithless here has a triple meaning.  In her heart she is faithless and would reciprocate her husband's adultery if given the chance.  She fears that her lack of faith in her husband is unjustified, giving in to his gaslighting and believing herself mad.  The faithlessness may also be a pun on the name of the dedicatee, Faith Hurtling, since this was thought to be written at a time during which they were unable to see each other and Sylph was literally Faith-less.  The poem comes to a sad end as she and her husband have a mundane conversation that slowly saps her will to live--word that "kill till talk hath kilt".
